DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Complete Beginner's Guide: Deploy Olive Home React Website

## About This Guide - Olive Home Co React website - hosted in Bluehost

This comprehensive step-by-step guide is designed to help beginners deploy and update the Olive Home React website without any prior coding experience. It walks you through the entire process from:
1. Cloning the project from GitHub
2. Making changes locally
3. Testing them in your browser, and then
4. Deploying those updates to your live Bluehost website.

The guide covers everything from basic terminal navigation to using Git for version control, building the production files, and properly uploading them to your cPanel file manager. Whether you're updating content, adding new images, or making design changes, this workflow ensures your website stays current and professional.

**If you have any questions about any of these steps, encounter errors, or need clarification on any part of the process, please don't hesitate to reach out.**

---

## Prerequisites

- Install Git
- Install Node.js (includes npm)
- Have access to your Bluehost cPanel
  - Go to: https://www.bluehost.com/my-account/hosting/details/sites/15398605/files
  - Click on 'File Manager'

---

## Step 1: Clone the Repository

1. Open Terminal (Mac) or Command Prompt (Windows)
2. Navigate to where you want the project:
   ```bash
   cd Desktop
   ```
3. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Jadeng24/olive-home-react.git
   ```
4. Enter the project folder:
   ```bash
   cd olive-home-react
   ```

---

## Step 2: Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 📁 Navigation Tips

If you need to navigate between folders in Terminal/Command Prompt:

- **Go into a folder:** `cd folder-name`
- **Go back one folder:** `cd ..`
- **Go back to home:** `cd ~` (Mac) or `cd %USERPROFILE%` (Windows)
- **See current location:** `pwd` (Mac) or `cd` (Windows)
- **List files in current folder:** `ls` (Mac) or `dir` (Windows)

**Example:** If you're in the wrong folder, use `cd ..` to go back, then `cd Desktop` to get to Desktop.

---

## Step 3: Start Development Server (Optional but Recommended)

```bash
npm run dev
```

- Open your browser and go to http://localhost:5173/
- You can now see your website locally and watch changes update in real-time
- Press `Ctrl+C` to stop the server when done

---

## Step 4: Make Your Changes

1. Open the project in your code editor IDE (Windsurf, VS Code, etc.)
2. Make your desired changes to any files
3. Save all files
4. Check your changes at http://localhost:5173/ before deploying - refresh browser if needed

---

## Step 5: Commit and Push Changes from Local (Your Computer) to Remote (GitHub)

1. Add all changes:
   ```bash
   git add .
   ```
2. Commit with a message:
   ```bash
   git commit -m "describe your changes here"
   ```
3. Push to GitHub:
   ```bash
   git push
   ```

---

## Step 6: Build for Production (How to Upload Your Changes to the Live Website)

```bash
npm run build
```

This creates a `dist` folder with your website files.

---

## Step 7: Create ZIP File

1. Within your computer's File explorer, go to `olive-home-react` → `dist`
2. Right-click on the `dist` folder
3. Select "Compress" (Mac) or "Send to → Compressed folder" (Windows)
4. This creates `dist.zip`

---

## Step 8: Upload to Bluehost cPanel

1. Go to: **https://www.bluehost.com/my-account/hosting/details/sites/15398605/files**
2. Click on 'File Manager'
3. You should be in the website now (`public_html/website_57cd81b8`)
4. Click **Upload** button
5. Select and upload your `dist.zip` file
6. Wait for upload to complete

---

## Step 9: Extract and Move Files

1. In File Manager, right-click `dist.zip`
2. Select **Extract**
3. Click **Extract Files**
4. You now have a `dist` folder in `public_html/website_57cd81b8`

---

## Step 10: Move Contents Out of Dist Folder to Root Level

1. Double-click the `dist` folder (on folder icon) to open it
2. Select ALL files and folders inside dist (`Ctrl+A` or `Cmd+A`) or hold shift and click all of them
3. Click **Move** button
4. In the popup, change the path from:
   ```
   /public_html/website_57cd81b8/dist/
   ```
   to:
   ```
   /public_html/website_57cd81b8/
   ```
5. Click **Move Files**
   - **Note:** If it asks if you want to overwrite files, YES overwrite them so new updates are taking precedence over old ones.

---

## Step 11: Clean Up (Not Required but Should Do)

1. Go back to `public_html/website_57cd81b8`
2. Delete the empty `dist` folder
3. Delete the `dist.zip` file

---

## Step 12: Test Your Website

Visit your domain to see the updated website!

---

## 🎉 Your website is now updated! 

Repeat steps 4-12 whenever you want to make changes.

---

## 💡 Pro Tip

Always test your changes locally at http://localhost:5173/ with `npm run dev` before deploying to production. This helps catch any issues before they go live!

Commit message:

adding detailed instructions and tips for new engineer on working with this repository. Setup and deployment

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Complete Beginner's Guide: Deploy Olive Home React Website

## About This Guide - Olive Home Co React website - hosted in Bluehost

This comprehensive step-by-step guide is designed to help beginners deploy and update the Olive Home React website without any prior coding experience. It walks you through the entire process from:
1. Cloning the project from GitHub
2. Making changes locally
3. Testing them in your browser, and then
4. Deploying those updates to your live Bluehost website.

The guide covers everything from basic terminal navigation to using Git for version control, building the production files, and properly uploading them to your cPanel file manager. Whether you're updating content, adding new images, or making design changes, this workflow ensures your website stays current and professional.

**If you have any questions about any of these steps, encounter errors, or need clarification on any part of the process, please don't hesitate to reach out.**

---

## 👀 Reading This Guide

**To view this file in a nicer preview format:**

- **Keyboard shortcut:** `Cmd+Shift+V` (Mac) or `Ctrl+Shift+V` (Windows/Linux)
- **Menu method:** Right-click the file tab → "Open Preview" or look for preview icon in top-right corner

This works for any `.md` (markdown) file in the project!

---

## Prerequisites

- Install Git
- Install Node.js (includes npm)
- Have access to your Bluehost cPanel
  - Go to: https://www.bluehost.com/my-account/hosting/details/sites/15398605/files
  - Click on 'File Manager'

---

## Step 1: Clone the Repository

1. Open Terminal (Mac) or Command Prompt (Windows)
2. Navigate to where you want the project:
   ```bash
   cd Desktop
   ```
3. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Jadeng24/olive-home-react.git
   ```
4. Enter the project folder:
   ```bash
   cd olive-home-react
   ```

---

## Step 2: Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 📁 Navigation Tips

If you need to navigate between folders in Terminal/Command Prompt:

- **Go into a folder:** `cd folder-name`
- **Go back one folder:** `cd ..`
- **Go back to home:** `cd ~` (Mac) or `cd %USERPROFILE%` (Windows)
- **See current location:** `pwd` (Mac) or `cd` (Windows)
- **List files in current folder:** `ls` (Mac) or `dir` (Windows)

**Example:** If you're in the wrong folder, use `cd ..` to go back, then `cd Desktop` to get to Desktop.

---

## Step 3: Start Development Server (Optional but Recommended)

```bash
npm run dev
```

- Open your browser and go to http://localhost:5173/
- You can now see your website locally and watch changes update in real-time
- Press `Ctrl+C` to stop the server when done

---

## Step 4: Make Your Changes

1. Open the project in your code editor IDE (Windsurf, VS Code, etc.)
2. Make your desired changes to any files
3. Save all files
4. Check your changes at http://localhost:5173/ before deploying - refresh browser if needed

---

## Step 5: Commit and Push Changes from Local (Your Computer) to Remote (GitHub)

1. Add all changes:
   ```bash
   git add .
   ```
2. Commit with a message:
   ```bash
   git commit -m "describe your changes here"
   ```
3. Push to GitHub:
   ```bash
   git push
   ```

---

## Step 6: Build for Production (How to Upload Your Changes to the Live Website)

```bash
npm run build
```

This creates a `dist` folder with your website files.

---

## Step 7: Create ZIP File

1. Within your computer's File explorer, go to `olive-home-react` → `dist`
2. Right-click on the `dist` folder
3. Select "Compress" (Mac) or "Send to → Compressed folder" (Windows)
4. This creates `dist.zip`

---

## Step 8: Upload to Bluehost cPanel

1. Go to: **https://www.bluehost.com/my-account/hosting/details/sites/15398605/files**
2. Click on 'File Manager'
3. You should be in the website now (`public_html/website_57cd81b8`)
4. Click **Upload** button
5. Select and upload your `dist.zip` file
6. Wait for upload to complete

---

## Step 9: Extract and Move Files

1. In File Manager, right-click `dist.zip`
2. Select **Extract**
3. Click **Extract Files**
4. You now have a `dist` folder in `public_html/website_57cd81b8`

---

## Step 10: Move Contents Out of Dist Folder to Root Level

1. Double-click the `dist` folder (on folder icon) to open it
2. Select ALL files and folders inside dist (`Ctrl+A` or `Cmd+A`) or hold shift and click all of them
3. Click **Move** button
4. In the popup, change the path from:
   ```
   /public_html/website_57cd81b8/dist/
   ```
   to:
   ```
   /public_html/website_57cd81b8/
   ```
5. Click **Move Files**
   - **Note:** If it asks if you want to overwrite files, YES overwrite them so new updates are taking precedence over old ones.

---

## Step 11: Clean Up (Not Required but Should Do)

1. Go back to `public_html/website_57cd81b8`
2. Delete the empty `dist` folder
3. Delete the `dist.zip` file

---

## Step 12: Test Your Website

Visit your domain to see the updated website!

---

## 🎉 Your website is now updated! 

Repeat steps 4-12 whenever you want to make changes.

---

## 💡 Pro Tip

Always test your changes locally at http://localhost:5173/ with `npm run dev` before deploying to production. This helps catch any issues before they go live!
